Welcome back.
In this video we're going to be going over solutions to the prototypes.
Exercise is the first thing we need to do is create a constructor function for a person.
Each person should have a first name last name.
Favorite color and favorite number.
So let's declare a function person and pass in first name last name favorite color and favorite number
has parameters that should look familiar but it's good to practice again.
So here we'll assign properties onto the keyword this like first name and set it to the value of the
first name parameter.
We'll do the same thing or last name.
Favorite color and favorite number.
Next we need to add a function on the person prototype called full name which returns the first name
and last name property concatenated together.
So we add on to person that prototype a function called fully in this function will return this stuff
first name with an empty space.
And this last name.
Next we need to add a property onto the objects created from our constructor function called Family
which is an empty array inside of our constructor function.
We'll set a family property to be an empty array.
We want to make sure that we don't place this property on the prototype object because we do not want
this shared by every single object created from the person constructor.
When the new keyword is used Next we need to add a function to the person prototype called add to family
which will add an object constructed from the person constructor to the family array.
We have a hint here that we can use the instance of operator to make sure that the object is created
from a certain constructor function.
And we also have to make sure that we don't include duplicates.
So let's add on to a person prototype a function called at the family function.
Well except the parameter that we all call person and let's first check to see if this family that index
of person is negative 1.
We want to make sure that the person is not already in the family already.
Next we want to make sure that our person parameter has been created from the person constructor.
So we'll use the instance of operator for that part if both of these conditions are true will push the
person into this stuff family and return this family.
Let.
For the second part of these exercises we need to implement our own version of the map method that exists
on the array dot prototype.
So we'll define a function called Map on array of prototype which will accept one parameter a callback
function.
Remember the array that we're mapping over will be the keyword this inside of the function.
Let's create a new array and then a for loop iterate starting from zero until I is less than this Dalek's.
This refers to the array that we're calling map on after each iteration will increment i 1.
And inside of the loop will push in the result of the callback with the value index an array.
When we're done iterating will return the new array as a note.
This is a little different than javascript's native implementation of map as mapped does a little bit
more under the hood than what we have Napp actually accepts a second parameter where we can specify
the value of the keyword this.
Don't worry about that implementation just know that our implementation of map is not entirely complete.
For our last method we need to add a method called reverse onto the string prototype arrays have a built
in reverse.
So why not make one for strings.
Now we can do this using something like split and reverse and join.
I'm going to take it a different way so you can see another possible solution.
I'll make a variable called new SDR and assign it to be an empty string.
I'll then start iterating from the end of the string that we are calling reverse on.
I'll keep looping as long as I is greater than or equal to zero and decrement by one after each iteration
inside of the loop.
I'll add onto the new string the character that I'm at in the loop which will be the last character
up to the first character.
When I'm done looping I'll return that new string in reverse.
That's all for the prototypes exercises.
See you in the next video.